# Google Nexus---## Factory ImagesGoogle provides great resources for Nexus Devices, specifically in _factory images_.Factory images are copies of each version of the nexus operating systems for individual devices going as far back as the Nexus S.Downloading and flashing the images is a super simple process that is explained very well on Google's own website.Factory images are great for:- Upgrading or _Downgrading_ your nexus device.- Getting the version or tools needed for root procedures.- **Un-Bricking** your device.- Restoring to factory software if desired.You can find the factory images as well as instructions for how to use them here. [Nexus Factory Images / Developers.Google.Com](https://developers.google.com/android/images)---## Un-Bricking a _"Soft-Bricked"_ Nexus DeviceA "Soft-Bricked" device is a device which can still access the bootloader and/or recovery mode, but the operating system or recovery image/partition has been corrupted. This can often happen after flashing a bad recovery image or Android ROM.Un-Soft-Bricking a Nexus device is usually very easy. 99/100 times following the instructions on the Nexus Factory Images page can fix the problem right away. Here's some helpful instructions to get your device back where it needs to be:1. Ensure you have the required USB Drivers installed on your computer as well as the [Android Platform Tools](https://developer.android.com/studio/releases/platform-tools.html) for ADB/Fastboot support.2. Download the Android Version desired from the factory images page. 3. Plug device into computer and power off if on.4. Boot device into bootloader/fastboot mode. (Search Google for how to do this for your specific device)5. Run the "flash-all" command for your specific computer (Example: flash-all.bat on windows) _Tip: Don't run the flash-all command as administrator on windows._6. Allow the tool to complete the process. The device will reboot many times. Don't unplug device or quit program until completed.7. Your device should reboot into Android by itself once the process is completed.---## Flashing Custom Recovery. (Needed for Custom Roms & Some Root Methods)It's hard to pin down universal instructions for a process like this.However, with Nexus devices, the basic instructions are pretty simple and cross-device compliant.- Ensure your bootloader has been unlocked.> If you have a device newer than the Nexus 5:>> Enable developer settings (tap seven times on build number in about phone)>> Enter developer setting from settings app.>> Then check the "Enable OEM Unlock" option.> Boot device into bootloader/fastboot mode.>>"adb reboot bootloader" from ADB shell or just boot with button combination.> Ensure device is recognized with "fastboot devices" in command line inside platform-tools directory. >If your device does not show up, make sure 1. Device is in bootloader mode. 2. Ensure proper USB drivers are installed. Google's drivers should work fine for fastboot. Search "Google USB Driver" online.> Once device is in bootloader/fastboot mode enter the following command to unlock the bootloader:>>fastboot oem unlock> **WARNING:** Unlocking bootloader may wipe all the data from the device back to factory defaults as a security measure.- Download recovery image. (Recommended TWRP or CWM. Check device page on XDA for best recovery for your device.)- Install recovery image by entering the following command from withing platform-tools directory in command line (replacing PATH-TO-RECOVERY with the location of your recovery IMG file):> fastboot flash recovery [PATH-TO-RECOVERY.IMG]- Reboot device. You can either boot device into recovery using the key combination at startup or>From ADB: "adb reboot recovery">From Bootloader/Fastboot: "fastboot reboot recovery"